mongoexport: add page (#6041)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/common/mongoexport.md

# mongoexport

> > Produces a JSON or CSV export of data stored in a MongoDB instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Export data stored in a MongoDB instance in JSON or CSV format.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm not really sure that this is that meuch clearer, except I do agree that it should be in the infinitive i.e. `produce`/`export` rather than `produces`/`exports`.

Author: I tried to use the command description from the man page: https://docs.mongodb.com/database-tools/mongoexport/.

> mongoexport is a command-line tool that produces a JSON or CSV export of data stored in a MongoDB instance.

Reviewer 3: Is a MongoDB instance more, than the data it contains, e.g. would it be wrong to say
```suggestion
> Produce a JSON or CSV export of a MongoDB instance.
```

Reviewer 4: I think it's probably more accurate to say `of the data stored in`:
```suggestion
> Produce exports of data stored in a MongoDB instance formatted as JSON or CSV.
```

> More information: <https://docs.mongodb.com/database-tools/mongoexport/>.

> - Export documents in JSON format to stdout:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Export a collection to stdout, formatted as JSON:
```
This way it doesn't sound like the documents have to be in JSON.

> `mongoexport --uri={{mongodb_uri}} --collection={{collection_name}}`

Reviewer 3: What does `--uri` do and why is it only in this example?

Author: it's basically a connection string.

Reviewer 2: e.g. `mongodb://localhost:27017/?readPreference=primary&appname=MongoDB%20Compass&ssl=false`

But @navarroaxel why is it only in this example? 🤔

Author: because there are a lot of parameters and I tried to reduce them.

Reviewer 4: Is there any official docs or language we can use as a reference here?

Author: https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/connection-string/#connection-string-uri-format

Reviewer 4: Sounds like the official docs use connection string here

> `mongoexport --uri={{mongodb_uri}} --collection={{collection_name}} `

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`mongoexport --uri={{mongodb_uri}} --collection={{collection_name}}`
```

> - Export documents that match a query to a JSON file:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Export a collection that match a query to a JSON file:
```
Is that also correct?

Author: I think `collection` is **all** the documents inside and their data too, like indexes. I think it doesn't apply here.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, maybe `collection` would imply that it exports the collection's metadata, when it really just exports all the docs inside.

Reviewer 4: If `collection` is the technical term, them what about this?
```suggestion
- Export the contents of all collections that match a query to a JSON file:
```

Author: @sbrl your suggestion is invalid because is for the `specified collection`:
```suggestion
- Export the documents in the specified collection that match a query to a JSON file:
```
also why `contents` it's for documents or JSON objects.

Reviewer 3: @navarroaxel I think you can commit your suggestion

> - Export documents that match with a query to a JSON file:

Reviewer 4: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
- Export documents that match a query to a JSON file:
```

`mongoexport --db={{database_name}} --collection={{collection_name}} --query="{{query_object}}" --out={{path/to/file.json}}`

> - Export documents to a JSON array instead of one object per line:

Reviewer 4: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
- Export documents as a JSON array instead of one object per line:
```

`mongoexport --collection={{collection_name}} --jsonArray`

- Export documents to a CSV file:

`mongoexport --collection={{collection_name}} --type={{csv}} --fields="{{field1,field2,...}}" --out={{path/to/file.csv}}`

> - Export documents that match with a query to a CSV file without a list of field names at the first line:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Export documents that match the query in the specified file to a CSV file, omitting a list of field names on first line:
```

> - Export documents that match the query in the specified file to a CSV file, omitting a list of field names on first line:

Reviewer 4: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
- Export documents that match the query in the specified file to a CSV file, omitting the list of field names on the first line:
```

`mongoexport --collection={{collection_name}} --type={{csv}} --fields="{{field1,field2,...}}" --queryFile={{path/to/file}} --noHeaderLine --out={{path/to/file.csv}}`

> - Export documents in human-readable JSON format to stdout:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Export documents to stdout, formatted as human-readable JSON:
```
Same as above, it sounded like the documents hade to be in human-readable JSON.
